---
title: 'Medium'
date: 2023-12-23
permalink: /posts/2023/12/medium/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This documents my journey of writing for the first time, as part of the Towards Data Science Authors program and through the Google Cloud Community Medium page as well.

# Introduction

My work with Towards Data Science was one of the first places where I began to write blogs more seriously than ever before. I do not use Medium a lot anymore, but I did write 3 articles there which do receive a lot of regular love (as per the emails I receive for story statistics).

# Blog Posts

## [The Annotated ResNet-50](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/the-annotated-resnet-50-a6c536034758)

This was the first blog I wrote as part of a deep-dive study into the popular ResNet-50 model. I explored the intricacies, covered some interesting theoretical content behind what goes on in the model, the inspirations, and more.

## [How to Make Your Models Available to the Public](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/how-to-make-your-models-available-to-the-public-be782dcb9942)

This blog was written as a reference material for a talk I had delivered previously with the same title. It details a technique to use Docker, Flask, and Gunicorn to make a decently-performant way to deploy your custom models on a server.

## [Accelerating Model Deployment using Transfer Learning and Vertex AI](https://medium.com/google-cloud/accelerating-model-deployment-using-transfer-learning-and-vertex-ai-6ee6cc7332e9)

This blog was also written as reference material for a talk I delivered, with the same title. This details a intricate method of deploying TensorFlow models using Docker and the TensorFlow Serving service.